---
title: Triggers
description: 
---

A trigger is an event that sets off an automation. For instance, a trigger could be the completion of a record, a change in a record's assignee, or a change in a custom field. When this predefined condition is met, the automation is activated.

These are all the possible automation triggers in Blue:

- **A New Record is Created**: Triggers when a new record is added to the project. Useful for initiating follow-up actions or notifications related to new tasks or entries. This also triggers when there is a [new form submission](/public/docs/projects/forms).
- **A Record is Moved to Another List**: Activates when a record is transferred from one list to another within the project, indicating a change in its stage or status.
- **A Record is Marked as Complete**: Triggers when a record's status is updated to 'complete', signalling the end of a task or process.
- **A Record is Marked as Incomplete**: Activates when a record previously marked as complete is reverted to an incomplete status.
- **Someone is Assigned to a Record**: Triggers when a new assignee is added to a record, indicating their responsibility for that task or item.
- **Someone is Unassigned from a Record**: Activates when an assignee is removed from a record, signifying a change in task responsibility.
- **Due Date Changes**: Triggers when the due date of a record is altered, which can be critical for time-sensitive tasks.
- **Due Date is Removed**: Activates when a record's due date is cleared, possibly indicating a change in priorities or timelines.
- **Due Date has Expired**: Triggers when a record's due date passes without completion, highlighting potential delays or oversights. This is an excellent automation for managers, as they can flag records/tasks to themselves if they become overdue.
- **Tag is Added to Record**: Activates when a new tag is added to a record, useful for categorization and tracking changes in task attributes.
Tag is Removed from Record**: Triggers when a tag is removed from a record, indicating a change in its categorization or properties.
- **All Checklists are Marked as Complete**: Activates when every item in a record's checklist is checked off, indicating the completion of all sub-tasks.
- **Any Checklist is Marked as Incomplete**: Triggers when any item in a record's checklist is marked incomplete, signalling unfinished sub-tasks.
- **A Record is Moved/Copied from Another Project**: Activates when a record is brought into the current project from a different one, helpful in tracking cross-project workflows. The trigger applies whether the record is manually moved or copied by a user, or automatically transferred through another automation, providing a comprehensive way to track cross-project activities.
- **A Custom Field is Added to a Record**: Triggers when data is written to a specific custom field in a record, indicating a change or addition of specific information. This only works with checkboxes, single and multiple select custom fields.
- **A Custom Field is Removed from a Record**: Activates when data is removed from a specific custom field in a record, signifying a modification in the record's information structure.
- **A Color is added to a Record**: Triggers when a predefined color is assigned to a record, indicating priority, progress, or categorization. For example, adding a red color for high-priority tasks or a green color for in-progress items.
- **A Color is removed from a Record**: Triggers when a predefined color is removed from a record, signaling a change in status or priority. For instance, removing a red color from a task when it's no longer high priority or removing a green color when a task is completed.

::callout
---

icon: i-heroicons-light-bulb
---

**Section marked for improvement** <br/><br/>
We are currently enhancing this section to offer more comprehensive insights into each trigger. Our updates will include detailed descriptions, illustrative screenshots, and additional information to provide a clearer and more informative guide on utilizing these triggers effectively.
::