---
title: White Label
description: Configure your Blue instance to use our own brand, domain, and emails.
---


## Introduction

White label transforms Blue into a flexible project and process management platform that looks and feels entirely like your own product — without the burden of managing technology, developers, servers, or uptime.

With Blue's White Label, you can:

- **Showcase Your Brand:** Replace Blue's name, logo, and colors with your own, creating a seamless brand experience.
- **Run on Your Domain:** Operate Blue on your own web domain for a professional, cohesive presence.
- **Leverage Your Email Infrastructure:** Send emails from your address for personalized communication.


For agencies, the White Label add-on strengthens your brand, enhances service offerings, and streamlines client collaboration. By embedding Blue into your workflows under your branding, you create a seamless, professional experience that helps you close more clients and retain them by delivering a unique blend of services and software tailored to their needs.


## Pricing

The white-label add-on costs $20/month per company or $200/year per company, in addition to your core Blue subscription. You can learn more about pricing [here](/pricing).

For accounts with multiple companies, bulk discounts will be applied automatically in the future based on the number of companies in your account. Bulk pricing will be announced later in 2025. If you are interested in this, please contact sales@blue.cc 
 

## Custom Domains

For White Label to work, you need to first set up a custom domain for the web application. 

Custom domains can be configured for the following:

- Web application (required)
- Forms (optional)
- File sharing links (optional)
- Documentation (coming soon)


To configure a custom domain, add CNAME records to your DNS settings for each subdomain. Please note that only subdomains are supported, not root domains. So `app.yourcompany.com` is supported, but `yourcompany.com` is not.


| Domain Type                | CNAME Record                  | Points to                  |
|----------------------------|-------------------------------|----------------------------|
| Web Application            | `app.yourcompany.com`         | `wl-app.onrender.com`    |
| Forms                      | `forms.yourcompany.com`       | `wl-forms.onrender.com`    |
| File Sharing Links         | `files.yourcompany.com`       | `wl-files.onrender.com`    |


The above table provides suggested CNAME records, but you can use any subdomain you want. 

For instance, the main web application could be `projects.yourcompany.com`  and file sharing links could be `media.yourcompany.com`.


## Branding

Customize the following elements to align Blue with your brand:

- **Logo**: Upload your logo to replace Blue’s branding across the platform.
- **Favicon**: Add your own favicon, which will appear in browser tabs and bookmarks.
- **Primary Interface Color**: Set a primary color for the interface, applied consistently across all users.
- **App Name**: Customize the app name displayed in browser tabs and in the desktop application.
- **Fonts**: (Coming soon) Customize the fonts used across the platform to match your brand from a selected list of Google fonts.

Blue provides a live preview of the login page and app icon as you configure your branding settings.

Your branding will also apply to the [desktop application](/docs/start-guide/download-apps#desktop-app), ensuring a fully white-labeled experience.

For logos, we recommend a rectangle logo with a transparent background with an aspect ratio of 1:1.5.

For favicons, we recommend a square icon with a transparent background with an aspect ratio of 1:1.


## Email Notifications

You can use SMTP to send email notifications from your own email server with your own domain instead of our email address.

You need to provide the following information to Blue:

- **SMTP Server**: The address of the server that will handle the sending of your emails.
- **SMTP Port**: The port number used to connect to the SMTP server, typically 587 for TLS or 465 for SSL.
- **Username**: The username for authenticating with your SMTP server, usually your email address.
- **Password (stored in encrypted format)**: The password associated with the username, which will be securely stored in an encrypted format to protect your credentials.
- **Sender Name**: The name that will appear as the sender in the email notifications, helping recipients identify the source of the email.
- **Sender Email Address**: The email address that will be displayed as the sender, ensuring that replies go to the correct address. Note that this must be the same domain as the SMTP server.

Blue enforces the use of TLS/SSL encryption for the SMTP connection.

You can then test the connection to your SMTP server by clicking the "Test Connection" button. Blue will automatically test the connection to your SMTP server and notify you if it is successful or not via a in-app notification.

### Considerations 

All transactional, notification, and automation emails will be sent via your SMTP server. The only exception is emails that contain OTP (One Time Passwords) which are sent via a generic email address (notifications@process-system.app) to ensure security.

Ensure that your SMTP server:

- Can handle high email volumes.
- Has a strong sending reputation to avoid spam filters.
- Has enough quota to accommodate the expected email load.


### Custom Invitation Emails

You can also customize the initial invitation email that is sent to new users when they sign up for your Blue instance. 

### Custom Onboarding Emails (Coming Soon)

Without white labeling, Blue sends a series of onboarding emails to new users when they join a company to help them get started. When white-label is turned on, these emails are not sent, and in the future you will able to create your own set of onboarding emails to welcome new users.

## Mobile Applications

We do not plan to support white-labelling of the mobile applications at this time, but if you want to have your own branded version of the mobile application on your own Apple Appstore and Google Playstore accounts, you can reach out to sales@blue.cc to discuss this.

## FAQs


**What is included in the white label add-on?**

The white label add-on includes three main features: custom domain integration for web application, forms, and file sharing; custom branding (logo, favicon, colors, and app name); and custom email notifications using your own SMTP server.

**How much does white label cost?**

The white label add-on costs $20/month/company or $200/year/company on top of your core Blue subscription. Bulk discounts will be available in the future for accounts with multiple companies.

**Does white-labeling affect the functionality of Blue?**

No, all core features and functionality of Blue remain exactly the same. White-labeling only changes the appearance and branding of the platform.


**Can I use a root domain instead of a subdomain?**

No, Blue only supports subdomains for custom domain setup.

**Do I need to set up all the custom domains?**

No, only the web application domain is required. Forms and file sharing domains are optional. Documentation domain support is coming soon.

**Can I use different subdomain names than the suggested ones?**

Yes, you can use any subdomain names you prefer. For example, you could use `projects.yourcompany.com` instead of `app.yourcompany.com`.

**What branding elements can I customize?**

You can customize your logo, favicon, primary interface color, and app name.

**Will the desktop application reflect my branding?**

Yes, the desktop application will be fully white-labeled with your branding.

**Can different users have different color schemes?**

No, the primary color you choose will be enforced across all users of your Blue instance.

**What email configuration details do I need to provide?**

You'll need to provide SMTP server address, SMTP port, username, password, sender name, and sender email address. The SMTP password is stored in an encrypted format to protect your credentials.

**Can I test the SMTP configuration before going live?**

Yes, Blue provides a "Test Connection" button that will verify your SMTP server configuration and notify you of the result.

**What types of emails will be sent through my SMTP server?**

All emails will be sent through your SMTP server, including transactional emails, notification emails, email automations. OTP (One-Time Password) emails are sent via a generic email address (notifications@process-system.app) to ensure security.


**Can I white-label the mobile applications?**

Blue doesn't currently support white-labeling of mobile applications. However, if you need a branded version on the Apple App Store or Google Play Store, you can contact sales@blue.cc to discuss options.

**Will white-label support for mobile apps be available in the future?**

There are currently no plans to support white-labeling of the mobile applications.

**How can I get help with white-label setup?**

For general help, you can contact help@blue.cc. For sales-related questions about custom mobile applications, contact sales@blue.cc.

**Can I test the white-label features before implementing them?**

Yes, Blue provides a preview of the login page and app icon as you configure your branding settings.

## DNS Settings

We have conveniently gathered instructions on how to do setup white label domains for common DNS (Domain Name Service) systems:

#### GoDaddy

1. Log in to your GoDaddy account, and open your product.
2. Navigate to the Domain Control Center.
3. On the Domain Settings page, find and select your domain name.
4. Scroll down to the Additional Settings section, and select Manage DNS.
5. On the DNS Management page, scroll down to the bottom of the Records section, and click Add.
6. In the Type drop-down menu, select CNAME, and complete the following required fields:
    - Host - The host name or prefix for the CNAME. You can use a period (.), but not as the first or last character. Consecutive periods (..) are not allowed. The host cannot exceed 25 characters or be the @ symbol.
    - Points to - Set this to `wl-app.onrender.com`
    - TTL - Specify the amount of time the server must cache information for.
7. Click Save.

#### Bluehost

1. Log in to your BlueHost account.
2. Click the Domains menu and then click Zone Editor. A new page appears.
3. Navigate to the Add DNS Record section.
4. In the Host Record field, enter the subdomain of the address you want to use for your custom domain.
5. In the Type drop-down menu, select the CNAME option.
6. In the Points To section, enter `wl-app.onrender.com`
7. Click Add Record.

#### Cloudflare

1. Log in to your Cloudflare account.
2. In the drop-down menu, locate and select your domain.
3. Click the DNS Settings tab.
4. Click "Add Record:
5. Select the CNAME option.
6. Set "Name" to your subdomain
7. Set "Target" to `wl-app.onrender.com`
8. Set the Cloudflare Proxy Toggle icon to a grey cloud.

#### Domain.com

1. Log in to your Domain.com account.
2. Locate your domain and click Manage.
3. On the menu on the left, click DNS and Nameservers.
4. Click Add DNS record to add the CNAME record.
5. Set target to `wl-app.onrender.com`
6. Click Update DNS to complete the process.

#### Dreamhost

1. Log in to your DreamHost account.
2. On the left of the page, click the Domains link.
3. In the Domains drop-down menu, select Manage Domains.
4. Locate your domain and click the DNS link under your domain.
5. Scroll down to the Add a custom DNS record to (your custom domain) section and edit the following fields:
    - Name - type the subdomain you want to use
    - Type - select the CNAME option.
    - Value - enter `wl-app.onrender.com`
6. Click Add Record Now! to add the CNAME record.

#### Google Domains

1. Log in to your Google Domains account.
2. Find and click your domain name.
3. On the menu on the left, click DNS.
4. Navigate to the Custom Resource Records section.
5. In the Name field, enter the subdomain of the address you want to use for your custom domain.
6. In the Type drop-down menu, select the CNAME option.
7. In the Data field, enter `wl-app.onrender.com`
8. Click Add to complete the process.

#### Hostgator

1. Log in to your HostGator account.
2. On the left-hand side of the page, click CPanel.
3. Scroll down to the Domains section, and click Zone Editor.
4. Find your domain and click the CName Record link next to the domain.
5. In the Add a CName Record dialog box, complete the following empty fields:
    - Name - enter your chosen subdomain/domain name.
    - CNAME - enter `wl-app.onrender.com`
6. Click Add a CName Record. A message from HostGator appears, stating that you have successfully added a new CNAME to your HostGator account.

#### NameCheap

1. Log in to your NameCheap account.
2. In the Account drop-down menu, select Dashboard.
3. Click Domain List and find your domain.
4. Click Manage next to your domain.
5. Click Advanced DNS and navigate to the Host Records section.
6. Click Add New Record.
7. In the Type drop-down menu, select CNAME Record and enter your subdomain as the host.
8. Then enter `wl-app.onrender.com`
9. Click Save all changes to complete the process.