---
title: Introduction
description:  Projects in Blue form the fundamental framework for organizing users and data.
---

## How Projects Work

Every project in Blue is entirely self-contained. Only users that are specifically invited into the project can see the data and collaborate.  You can have an unlimited number of projects within a Blue account.

There are two ways of thinking about projects in Blue:

1. **Projects**: A project usually has a clear beginning and end, focusing on specific goals or events. Examples include launching an event, rebranding, or designing a website. These projects are goal-oriented and have set objectives and timelines. Once completed, they are often [archived](/docs/projects/archiving-projects).
2. **Processes**: Blue also supports ongoing processes that don’t have a fixed end date. These can include tasks like customer service, helpdesk operations, sales tracking, and recruitment. These projects require regular management and organization but are continuous in nature.

## Project Settings

[Project Administrators](/docs/user-management/roles/project-administrator) will see a settings icon next to the project name in the top bar.

<video autoplay loop muted playsinline>
  <source src="/product/project-settings.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

There are multiple settings available:

- **Edit project settings**: You can change the project name, write a project description, add a project photo or icon, and also change the name of [Records](/docs/records/introduction) to something else (i.e. Task, Sale)
- **Set Icon & Color**: You can choose an icon and colour for the project; this will be shown in the sidebar to all users who are in the project.
- **Manage**:This opens a submenu where you can edit the available features and [custom fields](/docs/custom-fields/introduction) in the project. 
- [Convert to Template](/docs/projects/templates): This allows the project to be converted into a reusable template.
- [Copy](/docs/projects/copying-projects): Allows you to duplicate the project
- [Archive](/docs/projects/archiving-projects): Archive the project for future reference, turning it into a read-only project.
- [Import](/docs/integrations/csv-import) **&** [Export](/docs/integrations/csv-export): Enables import and exporting of records from the project
- **0Auth Connections**: Allows you to connect your project to an external service such as Github or Quickbooks.
- **Delete**: Enables the permanent deletion of the project.

::callout
---

icon: lightbulb
---

**Warning** <br/> <br/>
Deleting a project in Blue is permanent, and the data cannot be recovered. It is crucial to choose your project administrators carefully to prevent accidental deletions.
::
